Goth = Geth = Gaetians = TyrGetes =? Matagetes
Daci = Thrace = Thrachian ~? Dorians?
~!! 

MARS ~ Thorax

In Greek mythology, Thrax (by his name simply the quintessential Thracian) was regarded as one of the reputed sons of the god Ares.[7] In the Alcestis, Euripides mentions that one of the names of Ares himself was "Thrax" since he was regarded as the patron of Thrace (his golden or gilded shield was kept in his temple at Bistonia in Thrace).[8] Boston Bistum?

Taurisques ~ Bavarian
Carpiens @ Carpaten <> Char Kara = Black @ Turk
Scythes "iranian"
Thrace "iranian"
Odrysses Odysseus Ulyssesƒ
Odrysses <> Drihten?


We read that in their first abode the Goths dwelt in the land of Scythia near Lake Maeotis ; in their second in Moesia, Thrace and Dacia, and in their third they dwelt again in Scythia, a bove the sea o f Pontus. Nor do we find anywhere in their written
records legends which tell of their subjection to Slavery in Britain or in some other island, or of their
redemption by a certain man at the cost of a single horse. Of course if anyone in our city says that the Goths had an origin different from that I have related, let him object. For myself, I prefer to believe what I have read, rather
than p-ut trust in Old wives’ tales

In their second home, that is, in the countries of Dacia,
Thrace and Moesia, Zalmoxes reigned, whom many writ ers of annals mention as a man Of remarkable learning in philosophy(!!). Yet even before this they had a learned man Zeuta, and after him Dicineus ;

Wherefore the Goths have ever been wiser than other barbarians and were nearly like the Greeks, as Dio relates, who wrote their history and annals with a Greek pen.

He says that those of noble birth among them, from whom their kings and priests were appointed, were called first . Tarabostesei and then Pilleati. Moreover so highly were the Getae praised that
Mars, whom the fables Of poets call the god of war, was reputed to have been born among them.
Hence Vergil says: “Father Gradivus rules the Getic fields"

Now Mars has always been worshipped by the Goths with cruel rites, and captives were Slain as his victims. They thought that he who is lord of war ought to be appeased by the shedding of human blood. TO him they
devoted the first share Of the spoil, and in his honor arms stripped from the foe were suspe nded from trees. And they had more than all other races a deep spirit Of relig ion, Since the worship of this god seemed to be really bestowed upon their ancestor.

In their third dwelling place, which was above the Sea Of Pontus, they had now become more civilized and, as I have said before, were more learned.
were divided under ruling families. The Visigoths served
Then the people the family Of the Balthi and the Ostrogoths served the renowned Amali.

They Were the first race of men to string the bow with cords(!!!!), as Lucan, who is more Of a historian than a poet, affirms :
"They string Armenian bows with Getic cords "

In earliest times they sang Of the deeds Of their ances tors in strains Of song accompanied by the cithara; chant ing of Eterpamara, Hanala, Fritigern, Vidigoia and
others whose fame among them is great; such heroes as
admiring antiquity scarce proclaims its own to be.


as the story goes, Vesosis waged a war disastrous to himself against the Scythians, whom ancient tradition asserts to have been the husbands of the Amazons. (;)

Con cerning these female warriors Orosius speaks in convinc
ing language. Thus we can clearly prove that Vesosis then fought with the Goths, since we know surely that he
waged war with the husbands of the Amazons.


dwelt at that time along a bend Of Lake Maeotis
the river Borysthenes, which the natives call the Danaper,
to the stream Of the Tanais (!!!) famous as the boundary of Asia and Europe. 
 the other Tanais is the one which rises in the mountains Of the Chrinni and flows into the Caspian

 become tainted and unlike itself, and flows thus tainted into the sea between
the Greek towns Of Callipidae and Hypanis.
there is an island named Achilles.

 between rivers is a vast land filled with forests and treacherous swamps 

DEFEAT OF V E S OS I S (SESOSTRIS)

 This was the region where the Goths dwelt when Vesosis, king of the Egyptians, made war upon them.
Their king at that time was Tanausis. In a battle at the river Phasis (whence come the birds called pheasants, which are found in abundance at the banquets of the great all over the world) Tanausis, king of the Goths, met Vesosis, king of the Egyptians, and there inflicted a severe defeat upon him, pursuing him even to Egypt. 

Had he not been restrained by the waters Of the impassable Nile and the fortifications which Vesosis had long ago ordered to be made against the raids of the Ethiopians, he would have slain him in his own land. 

But finding he had no power to injure him there, he returned and conquered almost all Asia and made it subject tributary to Sornus, king of the Medes, who was then his dear friend. (!!!)

At that time some Of his victorious army,
seeing that the subdued provinces were rich‘ and fruitful, deserted their companies and of their own accord remained in various parts Of Asia



Bronze Age collapse

Tanausis was a legendary king of the Goths, according to Jordanes's Getica (5.47). The 19th-century scholar Alfred von Gutschmid assigned his reign to 1323 BC - 1290 BC.

According to the Getica, he was the Gothic king who halted the advance of the Egyptian armies of the Egyptian king Sesostris (whom Jordanes calls Vesosis). At a battle on the banks of the river Phasis, Tanausis routed the Egyptian king who had already conquered the Ethiopians and the Scythians.

Some of Tanausis' followers remained in the conquered lands, and Jordanes cites Pompeius Trogus as saying these were the origin of the Parthians, stating that in the Scythian language "Parthi" means "deserter" (partir;)

From their name or race Pompeius Trogus says the stock Of the Parthians had its origin.
Parthians -> Barathians @ India ~ Vedic Invasion

ARCHERS— almost alone among all the nations of Asia and are very valiant warriors.

Following his death, Jordanes writes that the Goths worshipped Tanausis as a god. >>> Tanis Tunis !!!!!!!

The story also appears in the earlier history of Justin, who also based his work on Pompeius Trogus. However, the opponents are described as Sesosis of Egypt and Tanaus, king of Scythia. Jordanes considered the Goths to be Scyths, and often did not distinguish them. Comparisons have also been made to a statement by Isidore of Seville to the effect that the river Tanais (now the Don) had been named for one "Tanus", an ancestral king of Scythia.

Tanais (Greek: Τάναϊς Tánaïs; Russian: Танаис) was an ancient Greek city in the Don river delta, called the Maeotian marshes in classical antiquity.


Wife of Goths as booty. ~ Amazonas! Arma.Xanas? Cyn
But they made a brave resistance, as they had been taught to do by their husbands, and routed
in disgrace the enemy who had come upon them.
they had won this victory, they were inspired with greater daring
took up arms and chose two of the bolder, Lampeto and Marpesia, to act as their leaders.

cast lots both for the defense Of their own country
While they were in command, and the devastation Of other lands.


crossed Halys, which flows near the city of Gangra, and with equal success subdued Armenia, Syria, Cilicia, Galatia,
Pisidia and all the places of Asia.
Then they turned to Ionia and Aeolia, and made provinces Of them after their surrender. 

Caspian Gates, which now the tribe of the Lazi guard as a Roman outpost.
Kasipan = Lapis Lazili !


Here they ruled for some time and even founded cities and camps bearing their name. At Ephesus also they built a very costly and beautiful temple for Diana, because of her delight in archery and the chase arts to which they were themselves devoted. Then these
Scythian- born women who had by s uch a Chance gained ,
control over the kingdoms Of Asia, held them for almost a hundred years, and at last came back to their own kins
folk in the Marpesian rocks I have mentioned above, namely the Caucasus mountains.

Euphrates and the Tigris, navigable rivers famed for their unfailing Springs. These rivers surround the land Of the Syrians
and cause it to be called Mesopotamia, as it truly is. waters empty into the bosom Of the Red Sea. äääääääääh

There it sends forth very famous rivers into the Casp-ian Sea— the
Araxes, the Cyrus and the Cambyses.

leaves a deep gap, thus forming now the Caspian Gates, and again the Armenian
or the Cilician, or of whatever name the place may be. --

The range has different names among various peoples. The Indian calls it Imaus and in another part Paropamisus. The Parthian calls it first Choatras and afterward Niphates the Syrian
and Armenian call it Taurus; the Scythian names it Cau-Kasus / Rhipaeus 
other tribes have given names to the range.
Tau<>Cau !!!

In Greek mythology, the Amazons (Greek: Ἀμαζόνες, Amazónes, singular Ἀμαζών, Amazōn) were a tribe of women warriors. The Scythian (Iranian People) women may have inspired the myth. Aram.geon ? A.Magans? MA MAGI MAZOn

Notable queens of the Amazons are Penthesilea, who participated in the Trojan War, and her sister Hippolyta, whose magical girdle, given to her by her father Ares, was the object of one of the labours of Hercules. 



    2.1 First Labour: Nemean Lion
    2.2 Second Labour: Lernaean Hydra
    2.3 Third Labour: Ceryneian Hind
    2.4 Fourth Labour: Erymanthian Boar
    2.5 Fifth Labour: Augean Stables
    2.6 Sixth Labour: Stymphalian Birds
    2.7 Seventh Labour: Cretan Bull
    2.8 Eighth Labour: Mares of Diomedes
    2.9 Ninth Labour: Belt of Hippolyta
    2.10 Tenth Labour: Cattle of Geryon
    2.11 Eleventh Labour: Apples of the Hesperides
    2.12 Twelfth Labour: Cerberus

 Stymphalian birds, man-eating birds with beaks of bronze and sharp metallic feathers they could launch at their victim.
Amazonomachies) was the portrayal of the mythical battle between the Ancient Greeks and the Amazons, a nation of all-female warriors. Many of the myths portrayed were that of Heracles' ninth labor, which was the retrieval of the girdle of Hippolyta, Queen of the Amazons



The shield of Athena Parthenos, sculpted by Phideas, depicts a fallen Amazon.

The geographic distinction is only verbal and ostensibly is misnamed: all of Doric was spoken south of "Southern Greek" or "Southeastern Greek."?


2041 ἔργον   work, labor, action, deed
ἔrγοn    Werken@German     wargon@Elean for Doric wergon and Attic ergon  QED 

 Sparta was the seat of ancient Laconia.   spartanic ,laconic
Lacedaemonians
Argolic was spoken in the thickly settled northeast Peloponnese at, for example, Argos, Mycenae, Hermione, Troezen, Epidaurus, and as close to Athens as the island of Aegina. As Mycenaean Greek had been spoken in this dialect region in the Bronze Age, it is clear that the Dorians overran it but were unable to take Attica. The Dorians went on from Argos to Crete and Rhodes.
Ample inscriptional material of a legal, political and religious content exists from at least the sixth century BC.

Corinthian was spoken first in the isthmus region between the Peloponnesus and mainland Greece; that is, the Isthmus of Corinth. The cities and states of the Corinthian dialect region were Corinth, Sicyon, Archaies Kleones, Phlius, the colonies of Corinth in western Greece: Corcyra, Leucas, Anactorium, Ambracia and others, the colonies in and around Italy: Syracuse, Sicily and Ancona, and the colonies of Corcyra: Dyrrachium, and Apollonia. The earliest inscriptions at Corinth date from the early sixth century BC. They use a Corinthian epichoric alphabet. (See under Attic Greek.)

Only differences:
Middle participle in -eimenos instead of -oumenos
ἐν (en) + accusative (instead of εἰς (eis)): en Naupakton (into Naupactus). Plankton vs plantus
Dative plural of the third declension in -οις (-ois) (instead of -σι (-si)): Ἀκαρνάνοις ἱππέοις Akarnanois hippeois for 
    Ἀκαρνᾶσιν ἱππεῦσιν Akarnasin hippeusin (to the Acarnanian knights).
purely/mostly orthographic? :
Doric gā mātēr ~ Attic gē mētēr "earth mother"    gaia geo Mother
ar for er: amara /Dor. amera/Att. hêmera (day) timera?
Contraction: Proto-Greek ae → Doric ē (eta) ~ Attic ā.
Proto-Greek eo, ea → some Doric dialects' io, ia.
Doric hiaros, Artamis ~ Attic hieros "holy hialig heilig", Artemis
Doric phāti ~ Attic phēsi "he says" vs quatsch qiz
legonti ~ legousi "they say" 
wīkati ~ eikosi "twenty"
triā.katioi ~ triākosioi "three hundred"  cent kunt hundert
Doric messos ~ Attic mesos "middle" miδδe mitte
Doric woikos ~ Attic oikos "house" (compare Latin vīcus "village") semitic:___   привыкший pro.wikshic
The aorist and future of verbs in -izō, -azō has x (versus Attic/Koine s).  Doric agōnixato ~ Attic agōnisato "he contended"
Numeral tetores ~ Attic tettares, Ionic tesseres "four".
Ordinal prātos ~ Attic–Ionic prōtos "first".
Demonstrative pronoun tēnos "this ~den" ~ Attic–Ionic (e)keinos !!

T FOR H    Doric toi, tai; toutoi, tautai ~ Attic-Ionic hoi, hai; houtoi, hautai.   THEM<>HEM!
Third person plural, athematic or root aorist -n ~ Attic -san. Doric edon ~ Attic–Ionic edosan
Temporal adverbs in -ka ~ Attic–Ionic -te. hoka, toka     hora?
Modal particle ka ~ Attic–Ionic an. Doric ai ka, ai de ka, ai tis ka ~ ean, ean de, ean tis

αἰγάδες aigades (Attic αἶγες aiges) "goats"




 In the northern part of the island ([of Skandinavia]) the race of the Adogit live, who are Said to have continual light in midsummer for forty days 
There are the Screrefennae, who do not seek grain for food but live on the flesh of wild beasts and birds’ eggs;


the Suehans who, like the Thuringians, have splendid
horses.

 those who send through innumerable other tribes the sapphire colored skins to trade for Roman use. 

 Then comes a throng Of various nations, Theu 22
stes, Vagoth, Bergio, Hallin, Liothida.
All their habita tions are in one level and fertile region. Wherefore they are disturbed there by the attacks o f other tribes.


 the Ahelmil, Finnaithae, Fervir and Gauthigoth, a race of men bold and quick to fight. Then come the
Then comes a throng Of various nations, Theustes, Vagoth, Bergio, Hallin, Liothida. Mixi, Evagre, and Otingis.

Ostrogoths, Raumarici, Aeragnaricii, and
the most gentle Finns, milder than all the inhabitants of Scandza. Like them are the Vinovilith also. The Suetidi

the Dani, who trace their origin to the same stock, drove
preemi among all the nations of Scandza for their tallness.
from their homes the Heruli, who lay claim to nence
Furthermore there are in the same neighborhood the
Grannii, Augandzi, Eunixi, Taetel, Rugi, Arochi and Ranii, over whom Roduulf was king not many years ago

fled to the embrace of Theodoric, king of the Goths, 

All these nations s urpassed the Germans in size
and spirit, and fought with the cruelty Of wild beasts ;)

HOW THE GOTHS CAME TO SCYTHIA

The United Goths
 Now from this island of Scandza, as from a hive Of races or a womb of nations, the Goths are said to have
come forth long ago under their king, Berig by name. As soon as they disembarked from their Ships and set foot on the land, they straightway gave their name to the
place. And even to- day it is said to be called Gothi scandza.
the Ulmerugi, who then dwelt on the shores of Ocean,
Soon they moved from here to the abodes Of
where they pitched camp, joined battle with them and
drove them from their homes. Then they subdued their
neighbors, the Vandals, and thus added to their victories.


In search of suitable homes and pleasant places they came to the land of Scythia(!), called Oium in that tongue.

came upon the race of the Spali, joined battle with them and won the victory. Thence the victors hast ened to the farthest part of Scythia, which is near the sea Of Pontu s ; for so the story is generally told in their early
songs, in almost historic fashion.

Ablabius also, a fa mous Chronicler Of the Gothic race, confirms this in his
most trustworthy account.

Now Scythia borders on the land Of Germany as far as the source of the river Ister and the expanse of the 
Danaster and Vagosola, and the great Danaper, extending to the Taurus range — not the mountains in Asia but in Europe
 all the way to Lake Maeotis.


Farther away and above the Sea of Pontus are the abodes Of the Bulgares, well known from the disasters our neglect has brought
upon us.
From this region the Huns, like a fruitful root Of bravest races sprouted into two hordes Of people
Some of these are called Altziagiri, others Sabiri ;









<> Dorian Darius I ?


Ich bin ... Jahre alt.      Jeg er ... år gammel.  Hvor gammel er du? Hvað er mamma þín gömul? << gamalt